README.md, before:

# tmignore

Time Machine on macOS is a highly useful tool for creating backups of all your files. Unfortunately for developers, it also backs up your coding project's dependencies, build output and other undesired files, which slows down the backup process and takes up storage.

**`tmignore` excludes files and directories matched by `.gitignore` files from future Time Machine backups.**

## Install

**Requirements:** macOS 10.13 or newer, Homebrew, Xcode

1. Build and install the script using Homebrew:

   ```sh
   brew install samuelmeuli/tap/tmignore
   ```

2. If you want to run the script once:

   ```sh
   tmignore run
   ```

   To schedule the script to run once a day:

   ```sh
   brew services start tmignore
   ```

## Commands

- **`run`:** Searches the disk for files/directories ignored by Git and excludes them from future Time Machine backups
- **`list`:** Lists all files/directories that have been excluded by `tmignore`
- **`reset`:** Removes all backup exclusions that were made using `tmignore`

## Configuration

You can configure the behavior of `tmignore` by creating a configuration file at `~/.config/tmignore/config.json`:

- **`"whitelist"`:** If there are certain files ignored by Git which you _do_ want to back up (e.g. configuration or password files), you can add these files to the whitelist:

  ```js
  {
    // Default: []
    "whitelist": [
      "*/application.yml",
      "*/config.json",
      "*/.env.*"
    ]
  }
  ```

- **`"ignoredPaths"`:** You can also prevent `tmignore` from scanning certain folders for Git repositories:

  ```js
  {
    /*
      Default: [
        "~/.Trash",
        "~/Applications",
        "~/Downloads",
        "~/Library",
        "~/Music/iTunes",
        "~/Music/Music",
        "~/Pictures/Photos\\ Library.photoslibrary"
      ]
    */
    "ignoredPaths": [
      "~/.Trash",
      "~/Documents/"
    ]
  }
  ```

## Development

1. Clone this repository: `git clone REPO_URL`
2. Navigate into the project directory: `cd tmignore`
3. Compile the Swift script: `make build`
4. Run the script: `./dist/tmignore`

Suggestions and contributions are always welcome! Please discuss larger changes via issue before submitting a pull request.

Commit message:

Add workflow for creating GitHub releases

README.md, after:

# tmignore

Time Machine on macOS is a highly useful tool for creating backups of all your files. Unfortunately for developers, it also backs up your coding project's dependencies, build output and other undesired files, which slows down the backup process and takes up storage.

**`tmignore` excludes files and directories matched by `.gitignore` files from future Time Machine backups.**

## Install

macOS 10.13+ is required to run `tmignore`.

1. Build and install the script using Homebrew (Xcode is required):

   ```sh
   brew install samuelmeuli/tap/tmignore
   ```

2. If you want to run the script once:

   ```sh
   tmignore run
   ```

   To schedule the script to run once a day:

   ```sh
   brew services start tmignore
   ```

Alternatively, if you don't want to build the binary yourself, you can download the compiled program on the [Releases](https://github.com/samuelmeuli/tmignore/releases/latest) page.

## Commands

- **`run`:** Searches the disk for files/directories ignored by Git and excludes them from future Time Machine backups
- **`list`:** Lists all files/directories that have been excluded by `tmignore`
- **`reset`:** Removes all backup exclusions that were made using `tmignore`

## Configuration

You can configure the behavior of `tmignore` by creating a configuration file at `~/.config/tmignore/config.json`:

- **`"whitelist"`:** If there are certain files ignored by Git which you _do_ want to back up (e.g. configuration or password files), you can add these files to the whitelist:

  ```js
  {
    // Default: []
    "whitelist": [
      "*/application.yml",
      "*/config.json",
      "*/.env.*"
    ]
  }
  ```

- **`"ignoredPaths"`:** You can also prevent `tmignore` from scanning certain folders for Git repositories:

  ```js
  {
    /*
      Default: [
        "~/.Trash",
        "~/Applications",
        "~/Downloads",
        "~/Library",
        "~/Music/iTunes",
        "~/Music/Music",
        "~/Pictures/Photos\\ Library.photoslibrary"
      ]
    */
    "ignoredPaths": [
      "~/.Trash",
      "~/Documents/"
    ]
  }
  ```

## Development

1. Clone this repository: `git clone REPO_URL`
2. Navigate into the project directory: `cd tmignore`
3. Compile the Swift script: `make build`
4. Run the script: `./dist/tmignore`

Suggestions and contributions are always welcome! Please discuss larger changes via issue before submitting a pull request.
